Now let’s take a look at another
kind of loop, the for loop.
Here is the cheer program
rewritten using a for loop.
Let me run it.
It prints two, four, six,
eight, who do we appreciate?
Coursera.
Now let's take a look at this loop.
Let's start count at two,
we'll go up two, but
not including none, and
we'll go in steps of two.
So it'll be two, and then the next
time through, it'll be two more, four,
then the next time through
it'll be two more, six, and
the next time through it'll be two more,
eight.
There won't be a next time,
because the next time it would be 10, and
that would exceed nine.
Every time through the loop
we're going to print the count,
and we're going to print a space.
It's just like the other program,
otherwise.
We print,
use the print to get a fresh line, print,
who do we appreciate, and
then we print Coursera.
Let me emphasize that this one
is the first one that it does.
This one,
when count takes on the value nine,
it will not do that one.
It will not go through the loop
when count is equal to nine.
It's up to but not including nine and
the step size will be two.
So, this will go two, and
then four, then six, then eight.
Now I want you to try and
write a function and using the for loop.
I want you to write the countdown
program using that.
Now remember that this
step can be negative.
Let me show you my run of this program.
Countdown one writes 10,
9, 8, 7 ,6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
And then Blast Off,
this is a rocket launch countdown.
Now, I want to emphasize that the range,
we have a starting position, we have
a stopping position, it won't do that one.
And this is the step size.
The step sign could be positive or
negative.
Okay, so take a moment to write this
program, and then when you get it written,
press the continue button and
I'll show you mine.
All right,
here is my version of doing the countdown.
Countdown1, for
count in a range of ten, so
we will start at ten going down to
zero but we won't do the zeroth one.
And since we want to go down we
want to use a negative step size,
we want to go down one at a time from ten
to nine, to eight until negative one.
We're going to print the count.
We're going to print a space, instead
of a new line, each time through so
that we end up ten, nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four, three, two, one.
Since we won't use zero,
there isn't a zero.
And then we print a new line,
and then we print, Blast off.
Now let's speak a minute about
finding errors in programs.
Here's an example of a function written
in Python that has errors in it.
And I want you to think about how
you would go about finding errors.
Of course, you can look through
this thing very carefully, and
probably determine what the errors are,
but let's do it by trial and error.
Let's run the function and
see what python tells us.
Okay, control enter.
Here's the function and it says
here we have an indention here, unexpected
indent, and it points to this print.
So if we look over here,
you see this line is indented four space,
one, two, three, four, but
this one is indented five spaces.
So this one needs to be moved over and
that's what it's telling this,
the indent is an unexpected amount.
So, back it up one, then we'll try again.
Now we didn't get an error.
So, let's try running it and
see if it runs properly.
What is my favorite toy.
So, I'm going to type in football.
And we get an error.
Name error.
The name Ma is not defined.
Now we were talking about
my tor why is it say my.
Well its interpreting this
as being a subtraction.
It wants to take my minus toy.
Now let's look back at our program.
We defined a variable called underscore
toy, and we wrote my hyphen toy.
So this needs to be corrected
to be the right name,
and now let's run this again and
see what happens.
Again, of course, it works as far
as the loading of the program.
So now the program works.
We found two errors in it.
I'm going to put this back like we had it.
Space, and
notice that the editor is telling us
right here that there's an error.
So that the editor can detect some of
the errors before they even run it.
Python itself helps you
to track down the errors.